a good name is to be chosen rather than
great riches loving favor
rather than silver and gold the rich in
the poor have this in common the Lord is
the maker of them all a prudent man
foresees evil and hides himself but the
simple pass on and are punished by
humility and the fear of the Lord are
riches and honor and life thorns and
snares are in the way of the perverse he
who guards his soul will be far from
them train up a child in the way he
should go and when he is old he will not
depart from it the rich rules over the
poor and the borrower is servant to the
lender
he who sews iniquity will reap sorrow
and the rod of his anger will fail he
who has a generous eye will be blessed
for he gives of his bread to the poor
cast out the scoffer and contention will
leave yes strife and reproach will cease
he who loves purity of heart and has
Grace on his lips
the king will be his friend the eyes of
the Lord
preserved knowledge but he overthrows
the words of the faithless the lazy man
says there is a lion outside I shall be
slain in the streets
the mouth of an immoral woman is a deep
pit he who is abhorred by the Lord will
fall their foolishness is bound up in
the heart of a child the rod of
Correction will drive it far from him he
who oppresses the poor to increase his
riches and he who gives to the rich will
surely come to poverty incline your ear
and hear the words of the wise and apply
your heart to my knowledge for it is a
pleasant thing if you keep them within
you let them all be fixed upon your lips
so that your trust may be in the Lord I
have instructed you today even you have
I not written to you excellent things of
counsels and knowledge that I may make
you know the certainty of the words of
truth that you may answer words of truth
to those who send to you do not rob the
poor because he is poor nor oppress the
afflicted at the gate for the Lord will
plead their cause and klunder the soul
of those who plunder them make no
friendship with an angry man and with a
furious man do not go unless you learn
his ways and set a snare for your soul
do not be one of those who shakes hands
in a pledge one of those who is surety
for debts if you have nothing with which
to pay
why should he take away your bed from
under you
do not remove the ancient landmark which
your fathers have set do you see a man
who excels in his work he will stand
before kings he will not stand before
unknown men
[Music]